
Jika saya menjadi driver gojek, dan ingin dapat penumpang dari jam 7 pagi hari sabtu sampai jam 19.00. Kemana saya harus pergi ?
Berapa peluang saya mendapatkan penumpang jika mangkal disitu..

We believe that being a go-jek driver must utilize his/her knowledge to ensure optimum efficiency in making money for daily basis.
First part, set-up
Let’s build up the knowledge of the “our” driver. Because we are binusians, we set our territory as that around Binus,
in this case Palmerah. And because we live there, we have the knowledge of shortcuts,
locals’ habits (including but not limited to Binus’ students),

Second part, action.
Because it’s Saturday, and morning, the driver will stand-by around binus
because lots of students might be lazy enough to walk themselves to the campus.
So, the most strategic place is around “U” Alley because a lot of students stay there.
The reasoning behind standing by there is simple, it’s due to a general knowledge of how the go-jek algorithm works.
It works by requesting the job to the nearest available driver.
We will do this as fast as we could because short trip enables us to achieve our target, that is the bonus milestone.
This is the scenario that will happen around 7 AM until 8.

Around 8, we roam around Palmerah to get some orders, with some luck it should be a short trip.
Because mostly, in weekend morning, people don’t go somewhere extremely far.
If possible, around 8.30 until 9, we will stand-by around the binus,
hoping that there will be some order from students whose class has ended.

After that, around 9.30 There must be some hungry people around. So it’s good thing to stay around food stalls. 

As the time flies, the clock should be around 10 or something.
Around this hour, most malls have opened, however, most people are still sleeping or slacking around because it’s weekend.
It might be a good idea to have an hour break.
Around eleven, we know that the malls will attract more people, including binusians.
Therefore, the best option is to end our break, and look for some order by standing by in front of binus’ gates,
while hoping that the passenger would order to go to nearby malls, e.g. Taman Anggrek, Central Park.

Around noon, There is a high chance that passengers ordered to nearby malls, because they want to hang out.
Therefore, it’s safe to assume that we have dropped some passengers at the mall and we stand by at the mall.

At around this hour many random orders will pop-up, it can be go-food, or go-send, or go-jek.
So we might be forced to go to other side of Jakarta. Most order, can come from Tanjung Duren District,
so we might spend lots of time to face heavy traffic just to pick-up the passanger.

Assume that we’re now being thrown away to Central Jakarta or North Jakarta.
And the clock should be around 1 PM. At this hour, there will be lots of demand from residences for both food or transport.
The best option here is to stay around at best-selling restaurant, the reason is simple.
Because Jakarta is extremely hot at this hour,
and driving for someone can be stressful because average person can weight 70kg,
So you want to avoid normal order. This scenario is the best option until lunch time over. That is before 3.

Around 3, as the temperature starts to cool down,
it’s best to find customer around malls,
because lots of people will have finished their lunch and want to go back home and sleep.
So, standing by at nearby mall will make sense.

Assuming we’re unlucky, we might stand by at Grand Indonesia because of it’s located in the heart of the capital.
(The reason, why it is bad, is due to the tremendous traffic there).
So at this hour around 4, we probably at a random place in Jakarta,
that we need to rely heavily on GPS, so it’s best to follow things regularly.
And because there might be some Christian go to Church around this hour.
It is plausible that we might be send to some Churches, this will last until around 5.

Around 5, we’re tired, so it’s best to take like 30 to 45 mins break to wait for Saturday night fever.
So we’ll continue our work around 5.45 PM because most people will go to the mall.
The reason why we should do this is because,
most malls that are good for weekend are those glamorous malls like Grand Indonesia, Plaza Indonesia,
and we want to go there because it will be near our starting point, that is Palmerah, our home.

Around 6.30 PM, there might be some order for food,
and we are standing by around crowded malls,
so it’s time to pick food order which addresses is near our home, And end the job for the day.
